new version of Ted Talks IWSLT (WIT3) (#1676)
huggingface/datasets: datasets/ted_talks_iwslt/README.md

---
annotations_creators:
- expert-generated
language_creators:
- crowdsourced
- expert-generated
languages:
- mr
- eu
- hr
- rup
- szl
- lo
- ms
- ht
- hy
- mg
- arq
- uk
- ku
- ig
- sr
- ug
- ne
- pt-br
- sq
- af
- km
- en
- tt
- ja
- inh
- mn
- eo
- ka
- nb
- fil
- uz
- fi
- tl
- el
- tg
- bn
- si
- gu
- sk
- kn
- ar
- hup
- zh-tw
- sl
- be
- bo
- fr
- ps
- tr
- ltg
- la
- ko
- lv
- nl
- fa
- ru
- et
- vi
- pa
- my
- sw
- az
- sv
- ga
- sh
- it
- da
- lt
- kk
- mk
- tlh
- he
- ceb
- bg
- fr-ca
- ha
- ml
- mt
- as
- pt
- zh-cn
- cnh
- ro
- hi
- es
- id
- bs
- so
- cs
- te
- ky
- hu
- th
- pl
- nn
- ca
- is
- ta
- de
- srp
- ast
- bi
- lb
- art-x-bork
- am
- oc
- zh
- ur
- gl
licenses:
- cc-by-nc-4.0
multilinguality:
- translation
size_categories:
- 100K< n<500k
source_datasets:
- original

> task_categories:
> - conditional-text-generation
> - other
> task_ids:
> - machine-translation
> - other-other-machine-translation

Reviewer: Don't need the `other` tags here

```suggestion
task_categories:
- conditional-text-generation
task_ids:
- machine-translation
```

  - [Source Data](#source-data)
  - [Annotations](#annotations)
  - [Personal and Sensitive Information](#personal-and-sensitive-information)
- [Considerations for Using the Data](#considerations-for-using-the-data)
  - [Social Impact of Dataset](#social-impact-of-dataset)
  - [Discussion of Biases](#discussion-of-biases)
  - [Other Known Limitations](#other-known-limitations)
- [Additional Information](#additional-information)
  - [Dataset Curators](#dataset-curators)
  - [Licensing Information](#licensing-information)
  - [Citation Information](#citation-information)

## Dataset Description

- **Homepage:** https://wit3.fbk.eu/home
- **Repository:** https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Cz1Un9p8Xn9IpEMMrg2kXSDt0dnjxc4z/view?usp=sharing
- **Paper:** https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2012.eamt-1.60.pdf
- **Leaderboard:** [Needs More Information]
- **Point of Contact:** [Mauro Cettolo](mailto:cettolo@fbk.eu)
[Roldano Cattoni](mailto:cattoni@fbk.eu)

### Dataset Summary

The Web Inventory Talk is a collection of the original Ted talks and their translated version. The translations are available in more than 109+ languages, though the distribution is not uniform. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To load a language pair which isn't part of the config, all you need to do is specify the language code as pairs.
You can find the valid pairs in Homepage section of Dataset Description: http://opus.nlpl.eu/GNOME.php
E.g.

`dataset = load_dataset("ted_talks_iwslt", language_pair=("it", "pl"), year="2014")`

The full list of languages is: 'af', 'am', 'ar', 'arq', 'art-x-bork', 'as', 'ast', 'az', 'be', 'bg', 'bi', 'bn', 'bo', 'bs', 'ca', 'ceb', 'cnh', 'cs', 'da', 'de', 'el', 'en', 'eo', 'es', 'et', 'eu', 'fa', 'fi', 'fil', 'fr', 'fr-ca', 'ga', 'gl', 'gu', 'ha', 'he', 'hi', 'hr', 'ht', 'hu', 'hup', 'hy', 'id', 'ig', 'inh', 'is', 'it', 'ja', 'ka', 'kk', 'km', 'kn', 'ko', 'ku', 'ky', 'la', 'lb', 'lo', 'lt', 'ltg', 'lv', 'mg', 'mk', 'ml', 'mn', 'mr', 'ms', 'mt', 'my', 'nb', 'ne', 'nl', 'nn', 'oc', 'pa', 'pl', 'ps', 'pt', 'pt-br', 'ro', 'ru', 'rup', 'sh', 'si', 'sk', 'sl', 'so', 'sq', 'sr', 'srp', 'sv', 'sw', 'szl', 'ta', 'te', 'tg', 'th', 'tl', 'tlh', 'tr', 'tt', 'ug', 'uk', 'ur', 'uz', 'vi', 'zh', 'zh-cn', 'zh-tw'.

The full list of years is: '2014', '2015', '2016'.

```
we can also add one usage example here showing that we can load any pair

### Supported Tasks and Leaderboards

machine learning task, language modeling and generation

### Languages

Ted talks are mostly held in English (`en`). Almost all of the talks have been translated, by volunteers, into Arabic, Bulgarian, Chinese (simplified), French, Italian, Korean, Portuguese (Brazil) and Spanish. For about 70 other languages, the number of translated talks ranges from several hundreds (e.g. such as other Dutch, German, Hebrew, Romanian) to one (e.g. Hausa, Hupa, Bislama, Ingush, Maltese)

## Dataset Structure

### Data Instances

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

One example from the dataset is:

```

  'nl': 'Toen Ebola in maart 2014 uitbrak, zijn Pardis Sabeti en haar team aan het werk gegaan om het genoom in kaart te brengen. Zo ontdekten ze hoe het virus zich verspreidde en muteerde. Sabeti zette direct haar onderzoek op het internet, zodat wereldwijd virus-jagers en wetenschappers mee konden werken aan de strijd. In deze talk laat ze zien hoe die openheid geholpen heeft bij het stoppen van het virus en hoe het kan helpen bij de strijd tegen het volgende virus. "We moesten transparant werken, delen en samenwerken". Sabeti zegt:"Laat de wereld niet ten onder gaan aan een virus, maar verlicht worden door miljoenen harten en geesten die samenwerken."'}}
```

> The original XML file has the following data instances:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The original XML files are formatted like this example:
```

      <seekvideo id="16116">This is Central Park,</seekvideo>
      .
      .
      .
      <seekvideo id="361992">for people to interact with</seekvideo>
      <seekvideo id="363709">and experience music.</seekvideo>
      <seekvideo id="365451">Thank you.</seekvideo>
      <seekvideo id="367495">(Applause)</seekvideo>
    </transcription>
    <talkid>1903</talkid>
    <title>Ryan Holladay: To hear this music you have to be there. Literally</title>
    <description>The music industry ......segments of sounds that only play when a listener is physically nearby. (Filmed at TED@BCG.)</description>
    <keywords>entertainment,music,technology</keywords>
    <image>http://images.ted.com/images/ted/d98c17773da6f84e9f915895c270c7ffd2de3778_389x292.jpg</image>
    <date>2014/01/12</date>
    <wordnum>885</wordnum>
    <charnum>5051</charnum>
  </head>
  <content>(Music) For any of you who have visited or lived in New York City, these shots might start to look familiar. This is Central Park, ............new ways for people to interact with and experience music. Thank you. (Applause)</content>
</file>
```

### Data Fields

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fields of the dataset are:
- translation:
  - <lang1>: text in <lang1>
  - <lang2>L translated text in <lang2> 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Information about the original data files:

```

- [Considerations for Using the Data](#considerations-for-using-the-data)
  - [Social Impact of Dataset](#social-impact-of-dataset)
  - [Discussion of Biases](#discussion-of-biases)
  - [Other Known Limitations](#other-known-limitations)
- [Additional Information](#additional-information)
  - [Dataset Curators](#dataset-curators)
  - [Licensing Information](#licensing-information)
  - [Citation Information](#citation-information)

## Dataset Description

- **Homepage:** https://wit3.fbk.eu/home
- **Repository:** https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Cz1Un9p8Xn9IpEMMrg2kXSDt0dnjxc4z/view?usp=sharing
- **Paper:** https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2012.eamt-1.60.pdf
- **Leaderboard:** [Needs More Information]
- **Point of Contact:** [Mauro Cettolo](mailto:cettolo@fbk.eu)
[Roldano Cattoni](mailto:cattoni@fbk.eu)

### Dataset Summary

The Web Inventory Talk is a collection of the original Ted talks and their translated version. The translations are available in more than 109+ languages, though the distribution is not uniform. 

To load a language pair which isn't part of the config, all you need to do is specify the language code as pairs.

> You can find the valid pairs in Homepage section of Dataset Description: http://opus.nlpl.eu/GNOME.php

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
wrong sentence
